# Tutorial 1: 

## Setting Up Your Environment
Before we dive into creating our automation, we need to first prepare our project environment.  For this section of the tutorial, we are using a machine running Linux's Ubuntu distribution, version 20.04 with Long Term Support (LTS).  Our machine has 1 CPU, 1GB of RAM and 25 GB or storage and is connected to the internet.   

## Is Your Linux Distro Up to Date?
Let's start by opening up our command line interpreter, also known as the terminal. We need to check if your Linux distribution, in this case, Ubuntu, is up to date.  To do this type the following command in your terminal:

    sudo apt update

This command will check for and return how many packages in your system can be upgraded. To see what packages can be upgraded type in:

    apt list --upgradeable

If you are ready to upgrade your distribution, go ahead and run 

    sudo apt upgrade

After this command completes execution your machine's operating system is now up to date and we're ready to continue.
## Do You Have Python3.9 Installed?
In order to work with the latest version of CrossCompute, we are going to need Python version 3.9 and higher. To begin, let's check if your operating system already has Python3.9.  In your terminal application, type: 

    python3.9

If you do not have Python version 3.9, the terminal is going to return the message: 

    Command python3.9 not found, but can be installed with: 
    apt install python3.9

Following the suggestion from your terminal, go ahead and install python3.9 py entering the suggested command

    apt install python3.9

Now that you have installed python3.9, run the earlier command:

    python3.9

You now should see the following

    Python 3.9.5 (default, Nov 23 2021, 15:27:38) 
    [GCC 9.3.0] on linux
    Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
    >>>

which verifies to us that you have successfully installed Python3.9.  To get out of the Python3.9 interpreter type the following into the prompt:

    exit()

## Do You Have pip?
As you may have heard, the Python programming language is one of the most popular programming languages out there.  This means there are a lot of libraries, frameworks, projects out there for you to learn, explore, and adopt into your day to day activities.  For us to be able to download and install such projects, commonly referred to as packages, we are going to need a package installer for Python.  Meet pip.  pip is what we will be using to download and install CrossCompute on to your machine.  

First let's check if your system has pip already installed.  Type the following command into your terminal:

    python3.9 -m pip --version

If pip has not been already installed you are going to receive the following message:

    No module named pip

In this case, let's get pip installed in your machine. Type the follwing into your interpreter

    apt install python3.9 -m pip

The above command will download and then install pip it into our machine.

To confirm pip having been installed type the following command

    python3.9 -m pip --version

You should see the interpreter return a message similar to the one below

    pip 20.0.2 from /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/pip (python 3.9)

## Do We Have Python3.9's venv?


