# Tutorial 2

## The Problem

Imagine youself as the new Arithmetic Analyst, at Mathematics Inc. On your first day, your manager sends you one hundred csv-files.  You open one and see that the file holds ten-thousand rows, with two columns, where each entry has what looks like a randomly generated decimal number. 

Your manager wants you to go through each file, go through each row, and calculate the sum, the difference, the product, the quotient, and finally, the average of two values.  

Yout then need to save the calculated values in a new file that's complementary to the name of the source file, saved in a different folder, and have it all done by the end of the day.

Okay, you take a deep breath, you got this. Your first thought is to use Excel. You then open up the first csv file.  You investigate the data.  Just a lot of numbers.  

You will need a new column for adding the two values, another new column for finding the difference, and another new column for the product, and yet another new column for the quotient, and finally the last column for the average of the two values.  That means you need each Excel sheet to compute five new columns for each row.  

You then also remember that the calculated fields have to be saved to their own csv, in a new folder.  

You know Excel can do the calculations, no problem. The problem is going to be opening each of the one hundred files, setting up the rules, outputting them to a new csv file, then saving each of them to a new folder.  

You look at the clock and you get the feeling that Excel definitely won't be able to get the job done. 
## CrossCompute Automation To The Rescue

/* TO DO: Introduce the value proposition that CrossCompute has, 1 Paragraphs */

## Install CrossCompute via T1

With both CrossCompute and Python3.9, with its related modules installed, we are ready to create our automation.
## Setting Up Your Project Folders
To get started, with our virtual environment activated, let us create a folder to hold the inputs to our automation.  In this case, the inputs are the 100 csv files, each with 10,000 rows. Let us also create our output folder, which will also hold 100 csv files each with 10,000 rows of calculated output.  

Next we are going to create a .yml configuration file, which we will call automate.yml.  
TO DO: What, why do we need it?

Lastly, we are going to need a Python script, which we will create and title run.py.  It is inside this script that we are going define the work the automation will need to compute and save.

## Setting Up Your Yaml file
Let's set up our automate.yml file.  There are eight sections to this configuration file. 

In the first section you need to specify the version of crosscompute. Next, you need to name your automation. Finally, you can give a version number to your automation.

In the second section we are going to configure our inputs and outputs.  To configure the inputs we are going to define the variables with an id attribute, a view attribute to render your variable to the display, and a path attribute to tell our automation from where our Python3.9 script will be loading the variable's data.  

Configuring the output is much like configuring the input. We are going to have an attribute to identify the variable, a view attribute to insturct how to render it to the display, and finally a path attribute to locate where our Python3.9 script will save the variable.

The third section is to define folders for specific test configurations you may have for your automation.

In the fourth section you have the option to define batch configuration.  The attributes we will have to provide are a name for the bath, a folder that contains inputs for input variables and a configuration for bath template and the folder path to that template file.

Finally, in the fifth section, we configure our script.  Here we tell our automation.yml file where it can find the scipt to run and the command to use in order to run your script.



## Writing the Script, Running the Script

## Feeling Accomplished, Ready for More
